
Bitcoin wallets
-----------------------------
The Offline device has several way to add, create and store Bitcoin wallets. These are:

1. Generate a single BTC address key-pairs:
    Just a private/public keypair. No seed words, no extended public key or passwords. 
    Use an online device to transfer Bitcoin to the public address (the private key stays on the Offline device).
    When you want to spend the Bitcoin move the private key to an trusted online device.

2. Generate a wallet seed directly on the Offline device:
    The Offline device generates a new 12 words seed phrase (with or without passphrase).

3. Add a wallet seed from a hardware device:
    A trusted hardware wallet such as the Blockstream Jade are used to generate a new wallet (12 of 24 words and with or without passphrase). 

4. Generate a Bitcoin wallet from random numbers of rolling dices
    Get the random words for your seed phrase (wallet seed) from rolling dices. This mean that you don't have to rely on any computer hardware OR computer software to get the seed for your wallet.
    Just make sure nobody is recording or watching you while you are doing it. 
     
5. Store wallets:
    When you already have a wallet you include it in the Secure folder's "Wallets" section. 
    This could be a seed phrase, a login to a Lightning hub or a recovery sentence etc.


First option is good when youo like to store some Bitcoins without have the risk of anyone tracking your holdings using Xpub (a public key that can find all Bitcoins in a wallet made from seed words).

Second option is similar to option number three but easier and faster as the seed words don't have to be manually copied from the Jade to the Offline device. Warning! It may not have the same level of randomness when creating the seed. And the algoritm and code of the Offline device is not as well tested, and trusted, as that of the Jade.   
IMPORTANT! You can always recover the wallet with the Jade if you have the seed words/SeedQR (and any passphrase) written down. The use of the Offline device is not mandatory. The "SeedQR" is just an easy and quick way to transfer all the seed words to a signing device.
Backups for each Bitcoin wallet must be stored in multiple copies and locations. And also on different mediums if possible.

Third option uses a well known hardware device for generating the wallet seed. When selecting "SeedQR scanning of the seed" from the Jade each time it is powered on has some benefits. The benefits include:

   a) the wallet seed is not stored in the Jade so it doesn't matter if it gets stolen or breaks, 

   b) as the Jade doesn't hold any keys inside (after its shut off) it can be used for multiple wallets and even used by many different persons.  

When using the Advanced option in Jade for generating a wallet it is needed to select to write down the "SeedQR" on paper. If not, the Jade will assume that you plan to have a PIN-code and store some secret on the device. But when using the Jade together with an Offline device it's only needed to write down all the seed words (and BIP39 passphrase if any) and not to "dot out" the QR-code. As an Offline device can generate the relevant SeedQR and Xpub based on the entered seed words (and any passphrase).
The Xpub can be scanned from the Offline device PC screen instead of from the Jades small screen. IMPORTANT! You can always recover the wallet with a Jade if you have the seed words/SeedQR (and any passphrase). The use of the Offline device is not mandatory.  

Fouth option is if you maybe don't have another hardware wallet that cn generate seed words and you don't want to trust the random generator (or code) of the Offline device. Each word can be checked that it corresponds to the binary representation entered by rolling the dice. Dice value 1, 2 and 3 represent a zero (0) and values 4, 5, and 6 represents a one (1). See Internet (AI?) to learn about converting binary to decimal and also about the list of words in BIP39 (Bitcoin standard).

Fifth option is to make an electronic copy for your wallet. It can include the wallets name, seed words, passphrase and a general description etc. When you then make a backup for the Offline device you have also a backup of your wallets secret data.

Both option 2, 3 and 4 adds the information about the added/created wallet into the Secure folder's "Wallets"- section. It good practice to add information in the description for newly added or created wallets on HOW they was generated (so afterward you know how much it can be trusted).
When typing in the seed words it is important that the spelling is exactly right. If not the Offline device will produce an error message in the end and ask you to try again.
When scanning the Jade for the signed transaction it helps to have a fixture or similar that raises the surface around the Jade to the same hight as the screen so that the camera reading the QR can auto focus better.

Signing transactions using the camera and QR-codes
-----------------------------
To make any Bitcoin on-chain transaction there are three basic steps:
1. Create the transaction. This include getting "From" and "To -addresses from the wallets etc. It's normally done with an online device (such as a phone).
2. Signing the transaction with your private key. THIS can be done with an offline device. This will protect your secret key from ever touching the Internet.
3. Broadcasting the transaction to the blockchain. Again, done with a connected smart phone or computer.

The Offline device reads an unsigned transaction (as a QR-code) from your phone with the built-in camera. You review the amounts, the fee and the receiving address. Then you can choose to sign it with the private key that is on the Offline device.
A new QR-code is then generated. This is then scanned using your phones camera. The wallet on the phone will then broadcast it to the Bitcoin blockchain. Doing it this way: 
   (1) creating your wallet offline, 
   (2) keeping the private key offline (at all times), and; 
   (3) signing the transactions offline.
Is a level of security that is unmatched by pretty much anything you can find.. Anywhere. 

Signing Bitcoin messages and keeping tabs
-----------------------------
With the Offline device you can create any number of wallets. Therefor you can have one wallet ONLY for interacting with, let's say, Coinbase and another wallet for interacting with your business clients or your local tax office. Each wallet has a seperate accounting. If you get a question from any of them to "prove ownership" for your wallet, you can do so by selecting "Sign a message" for that specific wallet.
Or if you are the manager of a department and the company you work for has a new, let's say, account for travel expenses.  The main office can create the wallet and encrypt the seed and send to you. You decrypt it on your offline device and add the new wallet alongside the other wallets you have. And now you can start signing expenses. 

Bolt cards
-----------------------------
Bolt cards are physical cards of anything that can have a NTAG (microchip and antenna) inside it. A Bolt card is linked to a custodial wallet online. They are programmed with apps found on the app stores and using a common smartphone (with NFC*). The main benefit of using a Bolt card is that it can be used anonymously, as it doesn’t have any MAC-address, GPS or IP-address etc. And it doesn’t require any Internet connection, battery or phone (with a sim-card). But for it to be really anonymous, you need to create an account for the custodial wallet on a public computer (or using a TOR- browser). And program it using an offline NFC-capable device/phone. 
Your Bolt cards data can be stored in a secure archive and then accessed through a graphical interface. For loading, reset and programming (using QR-codes that are scanned with a smartphone). 
* Near Field Communication


Programming the Bolt cards
-----------------------------
Note: A Bolt card that is already in use must first be wiped with a specific “reset code” before it can be re-used. That is why it is always a good idea to save the reset code when creating/programming a new card. 
On a computer create a user account at a LNBits Hub such as https://lates.lightningok.win etc. For privacy use a computer that is not linked to you, or use a Tor-browser if possible). 
Create a wallet in your account.
Activate the extensions “Bolt cards” and “LNURLp”. 
Install apps “NFC tools” and "Boltscard NFC Programmer” in your phone.
Read the Bolt cards “UID” with NFC tools and note down the code.
On the computer open up Bolt cards under “Extensions”. Click the “+” sign to add a new card. Select the wallet you created and the amounts etc.
Open up LNURLp under "Extension" and create a LNURL-paylink linked to your wallet.  
Type in the “UID” that you had noted down.
On the computer, click the QR-code symbol for the card. Use the Bolt-app on the phone to scan it.
Transfer the keys to the Bolt card by holding it to the back of the phone and write to card.
Copy the reset code, the program code and the LNURL-paylink (that you can make under "Extension" LNURLp). Paste these lines into a text file on a USB stick.
Then add some more lines so you have a text file with eight lines (in the exact order):

* LNURL paylink
* Reset code
* Program code
* Withdrawal limit
* Daly withdrawal limit
* Link to the LN HUB 
* LN User name
* LN Hub password

Alternativly, get an encrypted file containing the above information. Then move it to the Offline device using a USB stick (before decryption). The file must be signed and a copy of the senders public key needs to be on your local keychain (so you can verify the signature). In this way a Bolt card (the data) can be sent over the Internet AND the receiver can know who it came from AND that it was not viewed or manipulated by anybody during the transfer. 
Make sure to only use an anonomous smartphone connected to a public wifi when programming a Bolt card. 

Load the Bolt card with BTC.
-----------------------------
Sending Bitcoin to your Bolt card should always be done using a Tor browser or a public computer (that has no link to your personal identity).
* Open a browser and go the webpage ff.io or boltz.exchange/swap. Use liquid Bitcon (l-BTC) to save on fees.
* Scan or copy the “Load”-QR code from the offline device and paste it into the “Destination”- field.
* Enter the amount that you want to load the Bolt card with and press “Exchange now”.
* Take your Bitcoin/Liquid wallet and scan the QR and send the requested funds and start the swap/transfer.

To load the Bolt card from an offline wallet address you simply need to scan the “WIF”-address (spend address) with your phone (Blue wallet or similar) and then use that wallet to send funds to the exchange.


Reset the Bolt card 
-----------------------------
If you like to re-use the Bolt card you have to reset it with the exact reset code that was generated when programming it in the first place. If you don't have this code you can't re-use the card, it's that simple.
Open the "Boltscard NFC Programmer”-app on your phone and select reset option. Scan the reset QR-code with the phone's camera. Hit reset card and hold the card up to the phone's NFC chip (on the back of the phone). If it doesn't work please try one more time (as there could have been some disruption in the NFC transfer).


Inheritance 
-----------------------------
An inheritance package is a way to leave your encrypted data, such as Bitcoin wallets etc, to a third party without risking that it gets stolen. It consists of three files:
1. The encrypted archive. This contains the parts from the offline device you have selected. It is encrypted with a seperate key.  
2. The encryption key.
3. A signature file. This is a signature file created with your regular key for the encrypted (inheritance) archive. 

The encrypted file/archive can be decrypted on any Mac, Windows and Linux machine with GPG-software installed (almost all computers). The reciver don't need to have an Offline device or any graphical interface software. Files are readeable in a normal text editor etc. But ONLY if they have all parts: the file/archive, the secret key and the secret passsword. 
 
Don't use any of your regular passwords. Your beneficiaries probably can gain access to your Offline device or backups etc. It's best to inform the beneficiaries who the trusted parties are, who to contact in case of recovering the inheritance. And to always keep the password hidden and stored in a safe manner (and not to mention it to any outsider).

The beneficiary (your children etc) gets the secret password that you used when creating the inheritance package and they also should have a copy of your regular encryption key's public part. Using that, they can later on verify that it was YOU that signed the archive.
It is also possible to make a timestamp on the Bitcoin blockchain for the combination of signature and archive. Then the beneficiary can know WHEN the files where first signed (by you).

It is best to give the inheritance package (the three files) to more than one trusted person/company. The main idea is that the ones with the secret password should NOT have access to the inheritance package before you pass away (or decides to give it to them). 
It's a good idea to store the files (inheritance archive, the secret key and the signature file) on a couple of strong and dureable USB-device such as Corsair Flash Survivor Stealth or similar.
