
Digital ID (and Nostr)
-----------------------------
In the digital age, your Digital ID is everything. If you create the Digital ID yourself, offline and use the private parts of the encryption keys also offline, then we can say that the Digital ID is yours. You own it, and are the ONLY person that controls it. To give people confidence in your keys you should let other (trusted persons) sign it. You build trust over time and when people and companies see that the key (ID) is highly validated they feel confident in that it "you".

The main function for your Digital ID is not to encrypt messages or even to have private communication over the Internet. It's purpose is to:

 (1). Prove who you are (logging in to services and apps etc).
 (2). Signing important documents such as contracts, agreements, declarations and statements etc.
 (3). Validate OTHERS Digital ID's and encryption keys.
  
It is perfectly safe to make the public part of your ID/key available to a government, a company or organization etc. When someone then wants to verify your identity they can simply look at or scan the ID's fingerprint (unique number) with a phone or computer and that will link to the pubic keyservers. If you you have the correct/needed signature(s) you are good. 
Signatures that you made can be verified by anyone that has the public part of your Digital ID key. Logging into services can be done by the serice provider encrypting a "challange" to you using your public key and then only you having the corresponding private key can decrypt it and reveal the hidden "challange" needed to login.


Creating a digital ID
-----------------------------
First, make sure that you have created an encryption key that you would like to use with the new ID being created (4096 bits long). Then click "New ID" in the top left corner of the ID-menu. Insert the data as required (name and address, etc.). Have an appropriate photo ready to upload when instructed (.jpg format). The photo data size should be small, 10 - 25kb (as it will be included in the key itself).  
The dimensions of the photo should be 500 x 653 pixels and have good clarity. For more information, please check international and local requirements. 


General use 
-----------------------------
First of all, don't create an ID using the key that encrypts/decrypts the offline device itself. It's good practice to create ID's in a specific order. The first ID is for main/general use, the second could be for professional use and third for gaming or anonymously using the web etc.
Get signatures from trusted sources. Merge them with the key using the offline device and then export a new public part of the ID/key (see below). This can then be distributed and used for verification and identification purposes etc. Remember, it's YOU that has control over your own Digital ID. After creating a new ID it's important that you make one or more backups.

Get validating signatures.
To increase trust in your ID it is good to get verification, or signatures, from trusted sources. This is done by them using their private key to "sign" your public key (and giving it back to you). In this way somebody who doesn't know you directly can look and see what other institutions, companies and individuals have verified your key and then hopefully trust that its yours.


Make the key that you use for the digital ID known.
-----------------------------
To make others aware of your key, you can attach it to all your emails, post it on your website and put your unique key fingerprint on your social media profiles.
There are public keyservers that you can use to upload your public key. In that way, anyone finding your key's ID or fingerprint (in your emails, on your social media profile or homepage etc) can either click on a link to get to the key on the public server or go there manually and search for it.
The most known public keyservers are:
* keys.openpgp.org
* https://keyserver.ubuntu.com
* pgp.mit.edu


Sending your public key to a keyserver
-----------------------------
Use a GPG- client program or use the command "gpg --keyserver <key-server> --send-keys <key-id or fingerprint>". When using the "--send-keys" command, the email for the key will not get added. This is good for privacy and makes it more flexible as the email address can change over the years.
Example: gpg --keyserver keys.openpgp.org --send-keys F4FBFC9F52F2713E

Alternatively, export your public key from the offline device to a USB stick and then use an online computer to go to https://keys.openpgp.org/upload (or the keyserver you use). 


Getting a key from a keyserver
-----------------------------
With an online computer, use the command "gpg --keyserver <key-server> --recv-keys <key-id or fingerprint>".

Example: gpg --keyserver keys.openpgp.org --recv-keys B4FAFA9F52F2763E

To move the key to the offline device, you first need to export the downloaded public key from the Internet connected phone or computers local keychain to a file. Use the command "gpg --export --armor <key ID or fingerprint>" on the Internet connected phone or computers.
Then copy the new file to a USB stick and move it to the offline device for import. 
 

Updating your public key on a public keychain (after adding validating signatures or subkeys to it) 
-----------------------------
1. Get your newly signed public key (see above) and move it to the Offline device using a USB-device. Select "Digital ID" -> "More options" -> "Add validation". 
2. Export a new public key- file from the master key using the Offline device menu "Digital ID" - > "More options".
3. Move the USB to an online computer.
4. Go to https://keys.openpgp.org/upload (or the keyserver you use) and upload the updated public key. Alternatively, first import the key to the online computer's local keychain (gpg --import <key ID>) and then use the command: 
"gpg --keyserver <key-server> --send-keys <key-id or fingerprint>".

Nostr
-----------------------------
Nostr is an open source, decentralized and permissionless social platform (like Twitter but without the company Twitter..). It operates on the principal of two keys. One public (for accessing the accounts data) and one for signing "events" such as a new post/message.
The Offline device has added functionality for creating, storing and export/importing such keys. It also has an interface to transfer the private key to a Nostr Signing device (NSD). 

Creating new keys
-----------------------------
Under the "Digital ID" menu, open up the sub menu "Nostr". When there is an empty slot for a Nostr key, click on "New"- button. This will generate a random public key and one associated private key. Don't forget to backup the device after a new key has been stored.

Importing existing keys
-----------------------------
When there is an empty slot for a Nostr key, click on "Import"- button. This will open up a dialog with instructions on how to copy a file from an USB-device to the Offline device. The file on the USB must be a text file (.txt) containing exactly two lines.
First line is the public key (called "Npub"). The second line in the file is the private key (called "Nsec"). Make sure there is no "new line" after the second line.

Exporting keys
-----------------------------
Exporting the keys from the Offline device can be done in two ways. 
1. When there is a Nostr key available, click on the "QR"- button. This will open up a screen with a QR- code of the key. Scan it with a camera to transfer it to a computer and/or smartphone.
2. When there is a Nostr key available, click on the "Export"- button next to a public key or private key. This will open a dialog box with instructions on how to copy the key to an USB-device. The text file that will e written to the USB-device will have one lines (the Npub or Nsec).   

Transfer a private key to NSD
-----------------------------
When there is a Nostr key available, click on the "NSD"- button. This will open up a new window that have a guide on how to copy the selected private key to a Nostr Signing Device (NSD, a hardware device). The signing device work with Chrome browser.
Before starting to use the NSD it's first needed to install an extension to the Chrome browser. See instructions under Nostr- menu.

